I love this place. I really do.
It's a great place to hang your hat.
or lift your leg.
It's so me!
The bay breeze. the Golden Gate.
Fisherman's Wharf...
...the females...
Yeah. don't even get this dog
started on the females!
Just something about the way
a girl sips her latte...
...that gets me
a little hot under the collar.
But enough about me.
Let's talk about why we're here:
...the Dolittles.
Maya Dolittle is not the doctor.
the daughter.
You see. she's adjusting.
She's going through
that weird period...
...that every
one-in-a-trillion girls go through.
It's not every day
a young woman wakes up...
...and realizes she can talk
to animals. and we can talk to her.
I thought you said
you actually had your license?
Just chill out!
Everything's under control now.
Just don't kill me
before the party tomorrow night!
I burned the dopest CD
for everyone to freak to.
- Oh. my God. I just had
the best idea. - What?
You should totally have a birthday
party at the end of summer...
...and we'll make sure
it's off the chain...
...and then you'll be part
of the "A" list with me!
I don't know how to tell you this.
but you've been more of a "B" lately.
Which would make me a "C" at best.
I am so hating
my social status right now!
What do you expect? Running around
talking to animals all the time?
I told you a million times:
...I don't talk to them.
they keep talking to me!
- Maya. watch out!
- Oh. no!
What are you doing?!
What did you do that for. lady?
I was gonna pee on that!
How bad?
Oh. no!
You drive like a freaking animal!
Are you nuts?
You can get people killed like that!
Don't tell it to me.
tell it to the pig!
So I talked to Heather.
who text-messaged Mandy...
...who IM'd Christy.
who two-way'd with Tammy...
...and the bottom line is we're both
invited to the party tonight!
Oh. my. God! You're the best!
So then I invited them
to your party at the end of summer.
- You did what?
- I didn't want to be rude.
Rude?
Rude is inviting somebody to a party
that doesn't even exist yet!
Look. do you want to be in or not?
So... Maya.
I hear you're having
a birthday party this summer...
Yes. and it would be so cool
if all of you guys came. I mean...
I assume you're having it
somewhere worthwhile?
- I don't really know yet. but...
- It's on a boat.
Like. on a rowboat?
Actually. it's on a huge.
P. Diddy-like boat.
How MTV of you!
We'll think about it.
A birthday party.
That is so freshman year!
They're so coming. I can feel it!
You ready? We've got to go.
We got to help set up for Senior Day.
20 minutes. people!
Hey. dude!
You rolling to the jump off tonight?
- It's gonna be off the hook.
- Hi. Carl.
He nodded at me. did you see that?
Keep it up.
and he might actually talk to you.
Nice shot.
you freaking moron!
Give the bird a break. dude!
What's with you
and that dumb thing?
I just feel bad for him.
being locked up in a cage...
How do you feel so bad for him?
How? The only person who has
the combination is Principal Thomas.
Aw. jeez. it's 8-15-27!
Hey. guys.
maybe you should try 8-15-27.
Great!
The freak that talks to animals.
Wait. let me guess:
...the hawk told you the combo?
So. what if he did? You don't have
to be a jerk about it.
Go ahead then. Carl.
Let the bird out. I dare you.
Alright! Shake a tail feather!
Oh. thanks a lot. pal.
I'll be right back.
Ladies and gentlemen.
the hawk has left the building!
- Sweet.
- I owe you one.
There is Maya Dolittle!
Anybody who is anybody
is gonna be there.
I even heard Carl call it
"the party of the year".
Parties? Ooh-la-la!
I love parties!
I'm sure you do.
- Now...
- Ooh. it's that kind of party!
- Tell me where it hurts.
- Okay. I'm ready.
So is the party
in the neighborhood?
Cool! Now I can see in color!
Oh. yes. definitely.
What do you think. Lucky?
I was thinking something.
you know. furrier.
I'm serious.
This party is as big as it gets.
You look great. kid!
We were listening to that!
I just got off the phone
with your principal...
...and I saw
what you did to my car.
Smells like trouble...
Sounds like you had
an interesting afternoon.
Yeah. but it wasn't my fault.
I was trying to impress Carl.
and there was this bird...
I was 17 once. too. Maya.
I know what you're going through.
Really?
So animals chattered at you 24-7?
No. but I do know
what it's like to want to fit in.
Good. Then you know why I have
to finish getting ready for the party.
I'm sorry. sweetie...
...but I think
you have earned yourself a night in.
But I thought you understood!
I've been working on this look
for hours!
Any longer.
I would've peed on the bed.
It's just one night.
But why does it have to be tonight?
"Where's Maya?".
"Oh. she's at home. grounded!"
I might as well tell everybody
you put me in a time-out.
I'm sure there'll be other parties.
Lucky. I need a favor.
Give me a bone and a belly rub.
and I'm your man.
Look. we were lucky
even to get invited. right?
So I think the best approach
in a case like this is just...
...to keep a low profile.
- Definitely. low pro all the way.
Let's get
this party started. people!
Sorry.
I guess I got a little carried away.
We'll be lucky if anybody
even talks to us after that!
Speak for yourself. girlfriend!
I just wanted to say thanks
for taking the rap for me earlier.
Please. it was...
totally my pleasure.
Cool. So you wanna dance?
Come on!
Charisse is fine. but I'm getting
really worried about Maya. John.
I know you had trouble at first.
but you were a grown man.
Maya's a 17-year-old girl
trying to figure life out.
You know what?
I think I might have an idea.
I'm gonna talk to her
about it right now.
Maya. come down!
Hey. Maya. if you won't sing.
at least come down and dance.
Viv! Low pro. remember?
Oh. forget that!
You're the best dancer here.
Step up. girl!
Come on. Maya. let's go!
What a doofus. and it's her wig!
Hey. girl!
- Is that Carl and Maya Dolittle?
- Sure. he is.
What are you doing with her?
Girl. I'm grooving!
He must be out of his mind!
Hey. Justin.
turn around. check her out!
That dance is sick!
These moves are tight!
She's pretty good!
I told you. girl!
Dr. Maya!
My butt is ready to rock and roll!
Let's get this party started.
people!
Bombs away!
- What the...?
- Fire in the hole!
- Look out below!
- Is it hailing? - I'm so bad!
Oh. no!
What is he doing here?
I'm popping. I'm locking.
Go away! Get out of here! Shoo!
It's time to get my freak on.
Why are you doing this to me?
You'll ruin everything. Leave me alone!
What?
We were just following you.
Here I come.
Monkey on the move!
Time to meet some ladies!
This way to the bar. girls!
It's ladies night!
Is that what I think it is?
Check it out!
It's imported from France.
- You spiked the punch?
- Don't worry. it's good stuff.
- Wait! Is Maya talking to it?
- Oh. no. - Who brought her anyway?
Has anyone seen my CD?
Au revoir. party poopers!
Come on. Carl. let's dance.
Look. just leave now.
and I won't tell...
Oh. no. where'd you go?
#Allons. enfants de la patrie.
le jour de gloire est arrive! #
The monkey gave it to you...
You really expect me
to believe that?
The monkey from dad's clinic
followed me to the party. and...
Oh. the party
that you snuck out to attend?
Well. yeah.
but it wasn't my fault!
- Then whose fault is it?
- This ought to be good.
I told you.
it was the monkey's.
Oh. the monkey. the hawk. the dog!
The dog?
I wasn't even there! The dog...
God. do you ever shut up?
Don't hate the player. girl.
hate the game!
You see. that's the problem:
...l'm always talking to animals. Mom.
I need them to stop.
No. you need to stop.
I think maybe you need
to start thinking seriously...
...about who you really are...
...and what your future
has in store for you.
Okay. well...
I guess I can take a couple
of weeks off from the clinic...
...just to get my head together.
Maybe go down to the beach.
and do some shopping with Viv.
The beach? I could use a tan.
I'm talking
about a complete break...
...a total change of scenery.
There's this camp.
a ranch. actually...
...that I went to when I was younger.
- Wait! A ranch?
Yeah. that's a good one. Mom...
...but you and I both know
I'm not a ranch kind of girl.
I think this could be
a really good thing for you.
Mom. you were not me!
Oh. God. Mom!
You're sending me away?
To a ranch. with animals?
What are you thinking?
Maya. you love animals.
Okay. Mom. just listen to me
for one second.
I was almost "B" crowd once...
...then I start talking to animals.
and I went straight to a "C".
Now I'd just be happy
being back to "B" minus...
...like the swim team people.
- Or the chess club even.
I'm sorry. sweetie.
I'm trying to help you.
But you're punishing me
for something I can't control.
I'm not punishing you.
You have a gift.
and you need to learn to accept it.
I'd rather return it.
I want to talk to daddy.
I already did.
He thinks it's a great idea.
Well. you'd better get some sleep.
because the bus leaves at noon.
- Wait. I'm leaving tomorrow?
- Durango is a great place.
You're going to thank me one day.
No. I won't!
Mom. I just want to be normal!
I wish I wasn't a Dolittle...
Mom. I'm serious! I'm not going!
A ranch? What would I even wear?
Oh. my God. my hair!
I think I just went straight
from a "C" to an "F".
"F" is good.
"F" is the new "B".
Mom. I can't believe
I let you talk me into this!
Just give it a chance. honey.
I promise. one day...
Yes. I know.
one day I'll thank you.
Just do your best
to have a good time...
...and everything
is going to work itself out.
Go.
- I don't know if I can do this.
- Sure you can! Just do what I do.
And what is that?
Drink out of the toilet bowl?
No. I take it one day at a time.
Yeah. thanks for the advice.
Dr. Phil!
- Stay off my bed while I'm gone.
- Oh. you can count on me.
Not...
What happened?
You miss the bus to the mall?
Yeah. but that was only because
I was trying to figure out...
...how much make-up we were
going to need for your makeover.
Okay.
it's going to be like that. huh?
Hey. you're the one
messing with me?
Ladies. ladies! Come on. now.
Calm down! Papa's here. alright?
We don't need to argue.
where's love?
Sorry. dude.
Didn't mean to do that.
- It's a big bag. isn't it?
- Yeah... it's not the only thing!
Coming through. Excuse me.
these are big bags. Watch out.
Oh. come on!
- Anybody wants some Off?
- Some back off is more like it.
- What? It's good to be prepared.
- Prepared for what? Malaria?
Come on.
I've got donuts here.
D-nut? D-nut?
Want a donut? D-nut?
Ah. cool.
- How about you? You want one?
- No.
Whoopsie daisy.
Five second rule's still in effect.
This is gonna be one long summer...
What's the matter?
You homesick already?
What's your problem?
You don't even know me!
No. and I don't need
to know you either. okay?
- I can spot your type a mile away.
- Hey. hey!
Let's play the quiet game. huh?
Winner gets a date with yours truly?
Shouldn't you be. like.
at fat camp or something?
Look. my bones are large.
Alright?
Whatever helps you sleep at night!
Wow. this is gorgeous!
That's Silver Spurs. another ranch.
Your ranch is over there.
Oh. no!
Yeah! Finally we're here!
Excuses-moi!
Something stinks!
Okay. clearly.
there's been a mistake.
I said "A list" not "hay list".
Hello? Mom. are you there?
- Mom. are you there? Pick up!
- Maya!
Come on. pick up. it's me!
Maya. I'm coming.
Just hang on. just keep yapping.
It's awful out here...
Call me
whenever you get this message.
- I need you to come pick me up.
- Maya. Maya!
Where's that freaking button?
- I really need to learn how to read!
- Okay. bye...
I've got to get out of here.
- Easy! - You princess.
what are you looking at over there?
On second thought. maybe this place
isn't so bad after all.
That's the only smart thing
you've said all day.
Who are you?!
I'll be back to you later.
- The crapper...
- Oh. I just stepped on something!
Howdy!
Welcome to Durango. I'm Bo.
Wow. Bo! That was amazing
what you did with that horse!
Do you. like.
work here or something?
I guess you can say that.
My dad owns this place.
Cool!
The first thing is get you guys
unpacked. and you can go ahead and...
You have amazing eyes!
Thank you. that's...
mighty kind of you to say that.
Oh. no. please tell me
I didn't just say that out loud!
Don't worry.
I won't even hold it against you.
By the way.
I didn't catch your name.
I'm Brooklyn. Brooklyn Webster.
Okay. Brooklyn Webster.
How you doing?
I'm... doing much better now!
I'm Maya. Maya Do...
Dolores.
Maya Dolores Hanes.
Maya Dolores Hanes...
That's an interesting name
right there.
Not really. Just your simple.
Plain Jane kind of last name.
Nothing really special about it.
I really like those chaps on you.
Those look... fantastic!
And I love your hat.
It makes us look like we're twins!
They're like moths to a flame!
You know. it's very nice
to meet both of you ladies.
It's nice to meet all of you. guys.
The first thing we need to do
is get everybody unpacked...
...and get you guys all settled in.
alright? - Okay.
Come on. everybody...
...l'm going to show you
all to the bunkhouse...
...and then we can all get started
on some ranching chores. - Swell!
I want the bed with the window!
Oh. what a dump!
Were you expecting the Four Seasons.
or something?
Okay. did I do something specific
or are you always such a...
Oh. I'm sorry. did I hurt
your little Miss Priss feelings?
No. seriously.
do you always act like this?
Only when I see something I want.
And right now. I want Bo.
So you need to back off. okay?
Thank you!
Hey. Jud. I got those animals
loaded up and ready to go.
Okay. Walt.
I sure appreciate you taking
that livestock off my hands.
That's what neighbors are for.
Despite always whipping
your butt at the rodeo...
...the Silver Spurs has always
considered the Durango an old friend.
Now. if there's
anything else I can do...
...you just let me know.
I've always got my eyes open
for some good land.
I'm sure you do.
Well. Walt.
if you'll excuse me...
...I got some new recruits up there
waiting on me.
- You take care. Jud.
- You do the same. Walter.
Goatsies. goatsies!
What are you looking at.
fat boy?
Silly pigs.
Why. you want a piece of me.
pork chop?
Do I look funny to you. huh?
What? I got a boog?
I get it?
Gone? You hungry?
Hey. where you going?
I ain't finished with you!
I'll see you at the buffet table!
Hey. gang. I'm Jud Jones.
Welcome to Durango.
I imagine most of you
already met my son Bo. here.
We're going to be working hard here
at Durango for the next six weeks...
...getting you all ready
to ride in the local rodeo...
...and anyone
that trains hard enough...
...can take a shot
at the individual competition...
...and who knows? You might get
to win a nice. big shiny trophy.
- Wouldn't it be easier if we just
watched it on TV? - Shut up!
So we're not going
to be competing as a team?
No. son.
I'm afraid that the Durango ranch...
...doesn't enter into the team
portion of the competition.
How come?
Let's say it's hard to expect
a bunch of city folk...
...to compete
against experienced cowboys.
- But who's ready to become
a cowboy in training? - Me!
And they call me weird!
Are you going to teach the bull ride?
That's the coolest.
Come on. gang!
The best cowboy is no match
for the right bull on a bad day.
But... you don't expect us
to do that other stuff. right?
Oh. no. not today.
Today. you're going to take
yourself a nice leisurely trail ride.
And tomorrow?
- Tomorrow. little lady.
the real work begins. - Can't wait.
Okay. Red.
Let's see what you got.
Okay. I can do this.
Man. Tyler. you are a wuss!
Here. let me show you. guys.
how it's done. okay? Watch this.
Let me show you how it's done.
You could use a bath around here!
Watch this. guys.
One at a time!
Why do I always get the fat kid?
Shouldn't have had
that third Snickers.
Don't worry. kid.
She'll move when the time's right.
Well. looks like you're up. Maya!
What's the matter. princess?
You scared you might break a nail?
No. I've just never done
something like this before.
- I think I'll try it later.
- Never is more like it.
And the princess goes down!
- Are you okay?
- Yeah.
You've got to get on her
from this side.
Don't worry. she's pretty old.
She doesn't move like she used to.
Old? I got you old. buddy!
- No. no. no! Wait!
- Oh. no. no. - No. no!
Oh. my God!
- Move. Bo!
- Help!
Come on. son. move!
I thought I was off to a bad start.
Come on!
Whatever's your name. stop it!
Stop it. slow down.
- Who's the old one now. huh?
- Help me!
Hang on. Maya!
Hold back on the race!
You alright?
That's good.
Let's see if we can get you
on this thing the right way!
There you go.
See. there? Natural born rider.
Any day. Dolores.
Hey. Bo. thanks...
...and maybe later you can show me
how to do all this on my own.
"Maybe next time you can show me
how to do it on my own."
You don't actually think
that crap's going to work. do you?
I'm sorry. I believe the phrase is.
"Don't hate the player. hate the game".
Game on! You got served!
Goodbye!
If you think I'm dirty.
you should see my pen!
- Hey. I sleep on my own crap!
- You shut up!
- Have you seen Cogburn lately?
- No. you shut up!
He's not the head of the hen house.
Hey. pig. what are you doing?
Alright. I got one. check this out.
What do you call
three cows sitting in a jacuzzi?
Stew!
Do you animals ever stop?
What is your problem?
Was I talking in my sleep again?
I tend to do that. Sorry.
- You are such a weirdo.
- 27. 28. 29...
Shut up!
Hey. what comes after 29?
I knew.
Oh. I don't even know why I bother.
Hey. just wake up if you want!
What do I care?
What a joke! When is Jud going
to realize we girls have our needs?
Would it kill the man to get
a rooster with a little chutzpah?
Cock-a-doodle-do!
Sleeping Ugly!
Oh. no!
You okay?
I guess you weren't kidding
about bright and early. huh?
Dad likes
to get a head start on the sun.
So I'd say you got
about 10 minutes till we get going.
Okay.
Alright.
So anyways...
...I finally realized hitchhiking
is impossible without a thumb!
So I hopped on the back
of a pickup truck. and here I am.
- Oh. no. No way! It can't be!
- You all be good now. you hear?
Hey. Maya!
Look who's gone country!
Hey. there. little fellow!
Aren't you the cutest little thing?
What's with the baby talk. Maya?
I can hear you. remember?
Which is why you need to get
out of here. Now. go on. scram!
But I heard your message.
I came here to rescue you.
I'm serious.
You cannot stay here!
If the kids find out
I'm a Dolittle. I'm...
But you are a Dolittle.
aren't you?
Of course I'm a Dolittle.
Only right now.
I'm a Dolittle who's fitting in.
If the animals find out
I can talk to them. I'm doomed!
Why? You love animals.
Of course I love animals.
It's just that if they talk to me.
I'm going to talk back...
...and if I talk back. the kids
will think I'm some kind of freak.
You can stay here if you want...
...but just find something
to occupy your time.
- Occupy my time! Copy that.
- Okay.
This doesn't have anything to do
with the cowboy behind you. does it?
You mean the really cute one?
He's... behind me?
Hey!
Are you talking to that stray dog?
They like it for you to talk
to them like they're people...
...because it makes them
feel important.
- Yeah...
- So let me get this straight.
I come all the way here
and now you're just going to ignore me?
But I wore a wig!
Do you have any idea how confusing
that can be to a dog's identity?
Go round them up.
get them together.
Alright. Durangos!
Let's go. everybody!
- Durangos! Let's go! On the double!
- Let's go! On the double!
Round up! Round up!
Okay. yesterday
you all got your feet wet.
Today you're going swimming.
There's a pool? Sweet!
It's a metaphor. you moron!
Well. like I was saying...
...it's time to find out
what you kids are made of.
So Bo and the boys have built
a couple of contraptions...
...to simulate what an actual rodeo
might be like.
So remember:
Have fun out there!
- You got 'em. son.
- Alright. Pops.
- Let's just head on over this way.
- Cool.
Nice shorts. Clayton!
What. I'm a lover.
not a fighter!
Let's go.
Nice little brisk run here. come on!
Left. left. left. right. left...
Who's the one talking smack now?
Huh. fat boy?
Come on! Nay!
Come on! You don't really think
you can catch me. do you?
So close. yet so fat.
Left. left. left. right. left.
Oh! Left. left. left. right. left.
Left. left. left. right...
Poop it out!
Come on. poop it out!
- Hey! - Poop it!
- That's a rooster!
I'd wash your hands.
- Alright. let's grub!
- Finally something I'm good at!
Maya! Maya. over here!
It's important. Please!
It's better be good.
Well. you see. the thing is this...
I...
Oh. no. I know that face.
What did you do?
I... may or may not
have slipped up...
...and told one or two
of the animals who you were.
What?
Thanks for selling me up the river!
Hey. take it easy!
I didn't know what else to say...
...when they asked me
what I was doing here.
It's fine.
Wait! You're sure
it was just one or two. right?
Yeah. pretty sure...
And then again
it could have been...
...all of them.
I think that's her.
You are so dead when we go home!
Hey. whatever
the man's best friend thinks. huh?
Humans...
- Morning. Miss Dolittle!
- Hey!
Oh!
I don't want to ruffle any feathers.
Miss Dolittle. but I've got a problem.
I knew this was gonna happen.
Hey. Maya! Excuse me. girl...
...there's something
I need to talk to you about.
- Something really important.
- Gracie. whatever it is...
...l'm sure
you can work it out on your own.
But if you don't mind.
I rather be left alone. okay?
Hello. hello!
Okey-dokey! Lob one?
Hey. slow down there. sexy!
Around here. that egg
is considered a collector's item!
- Look who it is.
- Hey. ladies. what's cracking?
The little rooster who couldn't.
Seriously. like low egg production
is my fault.
You're not helping anything
by mocking me. you know?
Talk about
a cock-a-doodle-don't!
That's very funny!
- Hey. watch it!
- You watch it. lady!
I had a really bad day
so far. alright?
But if you wanna dance.
let's dance!
Hey! What is wrong with you?
"Oh. be a rooster!". they say.
"Show us what you're made of".
they say.
They think it's easy
being the only rooster...
...on a farm full of hens?
Well. it's not!
I'm sorry. look...
I'm just under a lot of pressure.
I just wish there was someone
I could talk to...
I'm sure everything's
going to be okay.
Hey. you just talked to me!
You mean none
of the other animals talk to you?
Well. I've been
in kind of a funk lately.
I haven't been out
of the coop in days.
Well. just give it
a little bit of time.
I'm sure everything will work out.
Hey. people fight.
People fight!
Don't just stand there!
Help us!
Give me a ten-spot
on the tough one.
- Hey!
- What? Just playing the odds.
Disgusting!
Go ahead! Pick on the skinny guy!
What has gotten into you. kids?
I was planning to sell those eggs
this afternoon!
Come on. Pops!
They're just having a little fun.
It's like that. huh?
Alright. then.
So...
...what do you women want exactly?
I mean. a guy can do so much...
- Sorry. Cogburn. but talking to you
earlier almost got me busted. - But...
Now. leave me alone
before somebody sees.
But what good is talking to animals...
...if you can't help a brother out?!
Hey. come back!
Hey. still ignoring me?
What do you think?
Sheesh!
I never knew you were such a snob!
A snob? What?
I am so not a snob!
I'm just doing my best
to try to fit in. that's all.
Plus. I really think
Bo is starting to like me.
He likes you?
Who you're pretending to be?
Can't you see that just for once
I want to be normal?
But you're not normal. Maya.
You're a Dolittle.
Yeah. not out here. I'm not.
I just hate not talking to you.
You're my best friend.
I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't
be taking any of this out on you.
I know you're just trying to help.
About time you gave the dog
his due!
And I guess it's okay
if all the animals know...
...but we have to make sure
no people find out.
- You think I'm going to tell them?
- If you could. yeah!
Wait!
Where have you been all morning?
You know.
just different things...
I love it here...
The wide open spaces.
and the straw...
Yeah. you met the collie.
haven't you?
Yeah... she is smoking!
Come on!
Oh. forget it. Bo!
You can't break him.
Besides. we need the money.
Wait.
you're gonna sell him? Why?
Pretty as he is. he ain't no use to us
if he won't let nobody ride him.
What's his name?
- He doesn't have one.
- Maybe you should name him.
I wouldn't even know where to begin.
The name's Butch.
You must be Maya.
How about Butch?
Why Butch?
My mama gave me that name.
You got a problem with that. cowboy?
I don't know. Maybe he just...
Iooks like a Butch to me.
Alright. Then Butch it is.
You think
you could do something for me?
I got this rock in my shoe.
It's been driving me nuts all day.
I'd love to.
Let's see.
Come on! Up. Butch!
Ah! Thanks. kid.
I guess I owe you one.
No problem!
But why won't you just
let them break you?
I'm a stallion. sweetheart...
...and stallions
don't break that easy.
You know if they can't break you.
they're going to sell you.
If they're gonna sell me anyway.
I might as well go down swinging.
What do you mean
"if they're gonna sell you anyway"?
Look around. kid.
Jud's been selling off animals
for weeks.
The place is starting to look
like a ghost town.
- That's so sad.
- Tell me about it!
Hey. Pops.
Ain't that the darndest thing?
Look at that!
The stallion
actually let her touch him.
You went off to college for a year
and you still haven't figured out...
...that there's more to a woman
than just a pretty smile?
- Still learning. Pops.
- Every day. son!
That's pretty impressive
the way you got on with Butch.
- You have a lot of pets at home?
- Me?
No! What would make you think that?
I mean. I love them and everything...
...if that's what you're asking.
but I wouldn't say I was an expert.
So what about you?
You seem to be pretty in tune
with them yourself.
Let's say I understand them a lot more
than I understand people.
I mean. especially you girls.
You never have to guess
what an animal is feeling.
You know. I think that hay
this morning gave me the runs.
Unfortunately.
I know exactly what you mean.
Well... nice talking to you.
You too.
Look what we've got here!
The amazing...
...the wonderful... Durangos!
Let's go see these little cats!
Take a good look from over there.
Durangos.
That's as close
as you're ever going to get...
...'cause you're not welcome over here.
- Like we care. Little Lord Fauntleroy!
Watch it. girl!
What?
You better watch you're mouth...
Hey! Look.
Knock it off. alright. guys?
Just knock it off.
Should probably enjoy your summer.
though. Bo.
Looks like it's going to be your last.
- What is that supposed to mean?
- Nothing.
Nothing at all. man.
- Let's just go. you all.
- That's right. tuck tail and run!
Seems to be the only thing you
and your dad are good at teaching.
Guess I'll see you later!
Come on. boy! Let's get going.
- Let's go.
- See you later. Durangos!
Let's get out of here! Yeah!
Cattle drive. sleep outside.
Haven't they ever heard of ticks?
The word is that the collie's coming.
Hey. you know me.
I love working the road.
That's the spirit gang.
See. the more we work together
the better we'll be.
See. ranching's all about teamwork.
Hear that?
Maybe us two should buddy up.
You're not that lucky.
Shucks!
I left some of the army blankets
in the gear hut. I'll be back.
- No. You stay put. I'll go get them.
- Thank you.
Isn't that helpful of you. Maya?
Hey. Jud. that's a safety hazard.
Careful! My...
This is gonna be one long ride.
Yeah.
I wonder why he never said anything!
Hey. Dad!
Something's going on to you.
Are you going to tell me
or to keep it bottled up as usual?
I know I should've told you sooner...
...but the bank's going to foreclose
on the place in a couple of weeks...
...if I don't catch up on the payments.
We'll figure out how to get the money.
We always do.
This is the open range. gang.
So far we've been teaching you
individual skills.
To get out here. you all put your skills
together in what we call "team work".
Hey. Jud!
- You really like it out here. huh?
- I love it.
See. Maya. it's days like this
that make me understand...
...why the settlers moved West
and risked everything they had.
It was their destiny.
That's one thing
I've come to find out.
You can't fight your destiny. Maya.
No matter how much you think
it might cost you. You can't fight it.
Hey. Pops!
I went all the way down to the river.
You know over there
by Silver Spurs?
I spotted a herd...
...just down the way up here.
about half a mile.
Okay.
Gang. now listen up!
Now me and Bo will do
most of the cutting...
...but you kids feel free to jump
in any time you want. okay? - Okay.
- Go ahead. Bo. lead on.
- Awesome!
Come along!
Durango. let's go!
I'm gonna miss
this place. too. girl!
Come on. buddy! Let's go!
Can I take a picture?
I want to show it to mom.
Hey! If I get you. boy!
You're not going to take my candy!
Alright. stampede!
He got him!
Hey. get your own candy!
Note to self:
Don't steal candy from fat kids.
Oh. my God!
Relax. now. sweetheart.
Nobody else move a muscle.
Oh. my God. I'm gonna die!
No. you're not!
Nobody's gonna die on my watch. baby.
Besides. his bark
is a lot worse than his bite.
What the...?
Look at Tyler. will you?
Will you look at him?
Way to go. boy!
I did it!
You ever danced with the devil
in the pale moonlight?
Hey. who killed the lights?
I heard they taste like chicken.
Thank you.
- Lucky. was that a wolf?
- Wolf. shmolf.
I eat those chumps for breakfast.
Care for a midnight stroll?
Why don't I get inside here
and rescue you?
So how do you like it?
The whole being-a-cowboy thing?
I wouldn't know. I mean...
...I spent the last year
as a freshman at Palo Alto.
Really?
Well. Palo Alto's not that far
from San Francisco.
I've been thinking the same thing.
You see. it's a great night.
"Va vest".
The best.
That's what I meant to say.
A cattle drive! More like
a cattle marathon. Am I right?
There it is!
That's the Bekerman place.
It's a beautiful spread. isn't it?
I never get tired of looking at it.
Tell me. Pops! You think they've earned
a night on the town?
Yeah. I reckon.
Don't fall off the horse!
- This music's giving me a headache.
- Baby. a headache?
I thought we were gonna
sniff each other.
I like this place.
It's not my usual crowd but I like it.
Oh. yeah?
So what's your usual crowd then?
This might sound a little corny...
...but I think
I'm just now figuring that out.
Check it out.
Easy. fat boy! Isn't there
some kind of weight limit here?
You break it. you buy it.
You aren't thinking
what I think you're thinking.
There's a time in every man's life
when he has to put his foot down...
...and draw a line in the sand.
- Yeah. but does that have to be here?
- Yes. - Against them? - Yes.
Alright.
Light me up!
This is gonna be good!
Boy down!
Look at that!
Move out of the way.
I'm gonna show you how it's done.
Excuse me!
Alright. kids.
Show what you get.
Okay. Why don't I show you losers
how a real cowboy does it. alright?
Bring it up a few notches.
let me show off.
Take a look. Durango!
Care to take a shot at the title?
Or are you still a has-been. Bo?
Durangos. we leave in an hour.
An hour? Looks like
there's trouble in paradise!
Alright. don't forget. folks!
Stings. huh?
#Settle down. Cinderella.
Keep it together. #
#Your handsome fella
will ride up sooner or later. #
#Yeah. and take you away.
yeah! #
#Settle down. Cinderella.
love's gonna find you some day. #
Cinderella. my butt!
More like the evil step-sister!
What about a tough act to follow!
Give it up for Kiki!
Alright!
Guys. somebody's got to step up.
We can't let them beat us
in everything.
Hey. don't look at me. alright?
I already took my stand.
(The freak that talks to animals.)
(You need to start thinking
about who you really are.)
(You can't fight your destiny.)
Alright!
Now hold your horses. everyone!
Looks like we got
a last minute addition from Durango!
Sure hope
she sings better than I ride!
- Not the only one.
- Hi. everybody.
I know you guys heard of hip-hop...
...but this is a little something
I like to call "hick-hop".
Check it out!
#Sometimes my nails
match my lips and... #
#... my jeans hug my hips. #
#I don't feel like
doing that right now. Listen! #
#He's on his way over. #
I hate to admit it.
but she's pretty good.
#You better love me
when my roots are showin'... #
#... or I'll pack up my boots.
be goin'. #
#Bye. bye. bye. bye. bye! Hey! #
#If it's me
that he's impressed with... #
#... anything I might be dressed in... #
#... ought to be just fine. #
#If he's the one for me.
I'll know it. #
#He better loves me
when my roots are showin'. #
#Or I'll pack up my boots
and I'll be goin'. #
#If it's me
that he's impressed with... #
#... anything I'm dressed with... #
#... ought to be just fine. #
#Ought to be just fine... #
#He better loves me
when my roots are showin'. #
#Or I'll pack up my boots
and I'll be goin'. #
#Bye. bye. bye. bye. bye! Hey! #
#If it's me
that he's impressed with... #
#... anything I might be dressed in... #
#... ought to be just fine. #
#If he's the one for me.
I'll know it. I will! #
I'll know it! #
#Love me
when my roots are showin'. #
Looks like we got a new champion.
Ladies and gentlemen...
...Maya Dolores Hayes!
I'm sorry. but you're out of time.
You either sell the land and what's
left of the land to Silver Spurs...
...or the bank will foreclose
and you'll end up with nothing.
- Okay. Bo! Bring them all in.
- Let's go everybody.
Jud. you should have been with us.
The ride was great!
Oh. that's good!
That's really good!
There's no easy way to say this.
so I'm going ahead and get it over with.
Looks like I'm going
to have to let the ranch go.
- What?
- Got to let it go.
- You're kidding. right?
- I'm afraid not. Brooklyn.
I'm sorry.
This blows. I don't want to leave.
I know. I wish
there was something we could do.
Let's just get some grub. guys.
I can't believe I'm saying this...
...but I'm not even hungry.
Excuse me. Maya.
Sorry to wake you. but your presence
has been requested in the barn.
Whatever it is. make it quick.
I don't want
anyone to see me out here.
You're the only one who can help us.
Maya. You are our only hope.
I don't know what to tell you. guys.
I can't stop Jud
from selling the ranch.
I wish I could.
but there's nothing I can do.
Maybe the other kids would help
if you just tell them who you are.
I can't just announce to everybody...
...that the animals asked me
to save the ranch.
They'll think I'm crazy.
Don't you mean
"Bo will think you're crazy"?
No.
Yeah...
Look. you guys. I can't lose him.
You're not losing anybody.
You're a Dolittle. They'll understand.
That's the problem. Butch:
They won't understand.
Other kids never do.
- We can't do this without you.
You're our voice. Maya. - Sorry.
Dolittle?
More like "Donothing".
Maya.
you've got to tell them the truth.
Woah. Red.
It's getting to be about that time.
Even though we weren't able
to finish the summer up properly...
...I want everyone of you knows
that I believe in everyone of you.
And you all might be city folk...
...but you've got a lot of talent.
and you've got a lot of heart.
That's not too easy to find
in folks these days.
You all take care!
- We'll see you. Red.
- Yeah.
- We'll see you. Big Fella.
- Yeah. - Lay off the burgers here!
Thank you so much.
I had so much fun.
- God bless you.
- Thanks.
- I'm so sorry. Jud.
- Don't you worry. sweetie-pie.
We'll be just fine.
Drive careful. son.
Shotgun. I called it.
Man. poor Jud... Did you see the look
on his face when we drove off?
Yeah.
I just wish there was something
we could have done.
Man. this sucks! You guys are like
the coolest friends I've ever had.
"Coolest"? Or "only"?
- What?
- You know what.
It's time. Maya. Time for you
to be a Dolittle again.
I know I'm just a dog.
but if they really are your friends...
...and if Bo really cares about you...
...they'll accept you.
no matter who you are.
But only
if you accept yourself first!
We need to stop the bus.
Why?
Because I know
how we can save the ranch.
This ought to be good.
We enter the rodeo this weekend.
as a team...
...and win the 50.000 dollar prize.
Think about it! Clayton has already
proved that he can wrangle a steer...
...and Tyler has become a pro
at the rope. now.
And Brooklyn can ride circles
around anybody.
Yeah. but what about the bull ride?
Who's gonna do that?
I saw all your trophies when I got
the blankets in the hood.
You were the best bull rider
in the whole state.
Maya. it's too little too late.
Even if I did ride...
...the rodeo's this weekend.
We'd never be ready in time.
What if I told you
we also had a secret weapon...
...something that no other ranch has.
not even Silver Spurs.
What would that be?
Me.
No offense. but I didn't see you
do anything special except sing.
My real name
isn't Maya Dolores Hanes.
It's Maya Dolittle and...
...I can talk to animals.
Right. and I'm the poster boy
for Jenny Craig!
- I'm serious. Clayton.
- I knew you looked familiar.
I see your dad
on the news all the time.
Yes. And I'm sorry
I lied to you. guys...
...but I didn't want you to look at me
like I was freak or something.
The point is
all the animals came to me...
...and they really
don't wanna be sold.
They love Durango as much as we do.
And the way I see it. they can
tell us what we need to do to win.
Do you know what?
That might actually work.
What the heck? I'm in.
If it's going to help Jud out...
...l'm with you. girl.
Time to cowboy up. everybody!
So what do you think. Bo?
Look. I'm sorry I lied to you...
...but it was because I liked you.
Out of all the time we spent together.
the things we said to one another...
...you wait until now to tell me
that you can talk to animals.
Back home
I was considered a weirdo.
That's why
my mom sent me here...
...so I could make a fresh start.
It may have taken me a little longer
than it should have. but...
Wait. If you let me finish.
there's something I have to ask you.
Do you have any idea
how cool that is?
Look. I'll understand if you...
Wait! What did you say?
I said that's about the coolest thing
that I've ever heard.
I've practically spent my whole life
wishing that I could talk to animals...
...and you can!
I hate to say I told you so.
So wait! You're not mad?
Mad? No!
Sweetie. come here.
Now why would I be mad?
Other than the fact
that I have to ride...
...a 2000 pound animal
that wants to kill me...
I mean. no. I'm not.
I'm cool.
- Come on. we've got a meeting
that we've got to interrupt. - Cool.
All I need is a signature. Jud.
Here you go. Jud!
You can keep it. if you like.
as a souvenir.
Dad. wait! Don't sign anything!
Hold on. tiger. Your daddy's
just about to finish some business.
No. you hold your horses. Walter.
Sounds like my son
needs to speak to me.
What's going on?
What you all two doing here?
What brings you all over here?
Speak up!
I'm not who you think I am. Jud.
I know just who you are.
Miss Dolittle.
What?
You mean you knew it all this time?
Why didn't you say anything?
I figured you'd tell us
when you got good and ready.
Well. I'm ready now.
We all want to enter the rodeo
as a team and win the prize money.
I can get
all the animals to co-operate...
...if. of course. you don't sell them.
and you... promise to let them stay.
Who are we going to get to ride a bull
for 8 second? Tell me that?
Nope.
No. that is not going to happen.
We've been over this
a hundred times before. Bo.
The doctor said if you take one
more fall like you did last time...
...you might never walk again.
No. sir. No.
Not going to happen.
I'm not willing to take that risk.
- But I am. okay?
- Bo!
It's my life and it's my choice.
And I've made it. okay?
I'm not letting them
take the ranch from us!
Pops.
I'm gonna get on that bull...
...and I am not coming off
until that bell rings.
I see the gang's all here.
We can do this. Jud. Together.
As a team.
Just like you taught us
at the cattle drive.
What the hey! At the very least.
it'll put Walter's shorts in a bunch.
Oh. yes!
Gentlemen. it seems
there's been a change of plans.
I'll see you at the rodeo.
- Looks like I got myself a team.
- But. Jud. I mean...
I know my way out.
Move it. Brooklyn!
The only thing is gonna hurt you
is the ground!
- 29 seconds.
- Is that good?
The winning time is 13.
Wait here a second. I got an idea.
Remember you said you owed me one?
I'm taking you up on that offer!
What do you mean?
You're the biggest
and strongest horse out here.
If we have any shot
of winning the rodeo...
...we need to let Brooklyn and Tyler
ride you in their events.
Me? An untamed stallion
in a real rodeo? I would be honored!
Lord. I hope that's mud!
Hey. beefcake!
When you got to go. you got to go!
What's he saying?
He's just giving
a little constructive criticism...
...but he says you're doing great.
Like that. Can you try?
I think you should walk like a man.
Well. a lot of good that does me.
I'm a rooster. remember?
Come on. you can do it!
Got it!
Come on. puff that chest out!
Put your shoulders back!
See. you know
what I'm talking about!
He says: "Ease up on the reins
and stake back on the saddle!".
Until he wants to throw. then he
should shift his weight forward.
Until you want to throw.
then shift your weight forward!
- Tell him to speed up!
- The cow wants you to speed up!
Forget that!
Tell the stupid calf to slow down!
On a personal note. I would think
twice before calling a calf stupid.
Can't argue with you there.
Left. left. left. right. left.
#I don't care
if you think it's true. #
#You'll be cowboys
when you're through! #
#We don't care
if you think it's true. #
#We'll be cowboys
when we're through! #
#I don't care where you've been.
Durango Ranch is going to win! #
#We don't care where you've been.
Like this?
Now you know
what I'm talking about! Let's go!
Okay. I'm feeling you.
Thanks. girlfriend!
That's great!
That's it!
Get you some of that!
- I could ride that thing.
- Yeah. if it's not moving.
So are you nervous?
A little. I guess.
Why? Are you?
Well...
I just don't want anybody
to get hurt out there.
Don't worry about it too much.
I mean those guys should be fine.
Yeah. well. it's not them
that I'm worried about.
Looks like she's about to slip him
the old tonguerooski.
No. I wasn't!
Please. I may be from right here
in the good old USA. but...
...I have been to France
plenty of times!
You are one sick puppy.
do you know that?
Rise and shine. Durangos.
it's winning time!
Good morning and welcome
to the Silver Spurs annual rodeo!
Today. ladies and gentlemen.
we'll have 5 teams...
...competing in 2 rounds
of rodeo competitions!
Good luck. tippers!
- First up. the long horn roping event!
- Come on! Untie that little doggie!
Oh. looks like
it's gonna be close!
Hey. not so tight! I bruise easy!
- Go. boy!
- Yes! Yes! Yes!
Next up. it's the big man's event:
Steer wrestling!
I'm going to own you. big boy!
I'll have you know you're looking
at a three-time state wrestling champ.
I'll have you know I once shoved
a whole box of Twinkies in my mouth...
...without swallowing them.
First up. Chip Woodman!
And that. ladies and gentlemen.
is the new record: 5.4 seconds!
Good luck!
Go back. You missed the steer man!
I don't know if we should give
that young man a hand or a cane!
It's time for some barrel racing!
Come on!
Come on. boy!
Coming in with a time of 16 seconds.
the Silver Spurs!
- Beat that!
- With pleasure!
Listen. Brooklyn. I know
you're not that crazy about me...
...and you think I'm some kind
of spoiled brat or something...
...but I think
the way you ride is amazing.
Thank you.
Now get out there
and kicks some butt. would you?
Come on. let's go!
Come on. Brooklyn! You can do it!
Go! Go!
- Bring it in!
- Come on!
13 seconds! What a great time!
Looks like they've got a leaner.
- Oh. dang it!
- What a bad break for the Durangos!
I shouldn't have cut it that close!
It's okay. You did great!
Despite the Silver Spurs
is having a slight lead...
...the championship
is still wide open...
...as we move into the second to last
event before everybody's favorite...
...the bull ride!
- Come on!
Durangos. everybody huddle up!
Come on. now!
Look. we can still win this...
...if we go into the bull ride
and be the second or third place.
- But we're in last right now.
- Yeah.
We're only 20 points away
from being in second.
If we win every event from here on.
the money is ours.
Come on now. put it in together!
Everybody! Durango on three!
One. two. three. Durango!
Hey. guys!
I just wanted
to give you a little heads up.
I heard the Silver Spurs are planning
on having veal to celebrate.
- What's veal?
- You are. man.
Forget that!
I'm nobody's main course. pal!
One down. two to go.
- Hey!
- Hey! You talk to the steer?
No. but I have a plan.
I want you to close your eyes.
Yeah. alright.
And I want you to picture donuts.
But not just any donuts.
Glazed donuts.
And not just any glazed donuts.
Fresh. hot out of the oven
glazed donuts.
- Now you are speaking my language.
- And most importantly...
...I want you to picture
those hot glazed donuts...
...on the horns of this steer.
Okay. let me at him!
Come here. donuts!
I'll catch you!
Ladies and gentlemen.
looks like we have a new record!
3.4 seconds!
Let's give it up for Clayton Taylor!
Note to self: Definitely
do not steal their donuts either.
Looks like it's time
for some barrel racing!
Give our teams a round of applause...
...as they enter the ring
in order of the standings.
Come on!
Hey. what's the matter?
It's my hand.
I think I busted it up.
Okay. just let me take a look at it.
Just be really careful
because it really hurts.
Ow. Maya. God! That really hurts!
- Can she ride?
- No. It's definitely broken.
It's okay. guys. It's over. though.
I'm sorry.
No. it's not.
Not yet. anyway.
- Maya. what are you doing?
- Yeah. what are you doing?
- Welcome aboard.
- Thanks.
What does it look like I'm doing?
You haven't even trained
for this event!
You said the hardest part
of barrel racing is the ground...
...so I just won't hit it.
Alright.
I'll go tell them
we have another rider.
Just hold on tight
and I'll take care of the rest.
Sounds like a plan.
Come on. let's go.
Pay attention. and don't fall off.
or you'll be dead.
What? You're just joking. right?
Ladies and gentlemen.
Brooklyn Webster has a broken hand...
- Mom?!
- Maya!
You don't have to do this. you know.
Yes. I do. If it was me.
you would have done the same thing.
I've got to apologize for being
such a jerk to you all summer.
I'm not good at getting along
with people when I'm jealous of them.
I want you to go out there.
I want you to make us proud.
I got you.
The time to beat is 16 seconds.
You were just kidding about
the whole "die" thing. right?
Hello? Oh. no!
Come on. let's go!
Come on. Butch!
Okay. make it happen!
You can do this!
15.8 seconds for Maya Dolittle!
Oh my!
What a comeback for the Durangos!
With that win they move into second
place in the overall standing...
...with just one event to go.
That's right. folks.
it's time for the bull ride!
- Relax. son.
- Yeah. tell that to him.
Don't worry. I will.
No. Maya. look. This is something
that I need to do on my own. Okay?
Ride him!
6 seconds. folks. Not bad!
And now the highly anticipated
comeback ride of Bo Jones!
This is for the whole enchilada. folks!
Talk about pressure!
Prepare to meet your maker.
Are you sure
you don't want me to talk to him?
Why? Did he say something?
Nothing you wanna hear.
I'm not gonna lie to you again.
He said: "Prepare to meet your maker".
but he said it in a nice way.
Great! I feel better now!
Stay on!
Yeah! Stay on!
Bo!
Get up. son! Get up. Bo!
Hey. guys. he's gone!
Get up. son!
- Bo! Wake up. Bo! Come on. son.
- Is he alright?
Wake up. son!
It's official. folks: Bo Jones managed
to stay on for the full 8 seconds!
You hear that. Bo?
Son?
Not bad for a has-been. huh?
That means the winner of the 50.000
dollar first prize is Jud Jones!
I want to see a replay.
Boy. it just wouldn't be our style
to go out any other way. would it?
I want to hear it on three!
Durango on three!
One. two. three. Durango!
Ladies. I'll be back in a second. I'm just
going to step out for some fresh air.
I've still got it...
- So. Bo...
- Yes! - Where are we going?
It wouldn't be a surprise if I told you
where we were going.
I just wanted to thank you properly
for helping us save the ranch.
You're welcome.
One second. sweetie...
Thank you.
Wait...
You're welcome.
Did I ever tell you I've got a lot
of other things to thank you for?
Come on!
Wait! Where is everybody anyway?
Surprise!
Oh. my God! It's my birthday party.
I completely forgot!
Okay. who are you
and what have you done with Maya?
- Happy birthday. girl!
- Oh. thank you so much.
- Happy birthday!
- Thank you.
- Thank you!
- Oh. Mommy! Thank you so much!
- Happy birthday!
I didn't do it all myself.
I had a little help from your friends.
Oh my gosh.
this is way better than any boat!
- I know. right!
- I missed you!
As soon as you two are done shrieking.
some folks would like a word with you.
Wait. I'll be right back.
- You know you look the same
as you did when you were 16? - Thanks!
And thanks for taking care
of my little girl.
It's kind of funny: She's the one
that's been taking care of us.
Hey!
Maya. for what you did.
this is our way of saying thanks.
We'd have gotten you a gift
but we're broke!
I should be thanking you. guys!
We couldn't have done it without you!
Nah. come on. Go on.
Enjoy your party. You deserve it!
- Alright. I'll see you guys later.
- Bye. Maya.
Hey. Maya.
thanks for helping me find my Mojo!
Tell me something I don't know!
And so our story ends.
Not really. You see. Bo is up to see
Maya every weekend from Stanford.
Brooklyn and Maya talk every day.
Go figure. huh?
Tyler's coming back to Durango
next year to teach roping.
And Clayton...
Iost his baby fat...
...and he's now considered
quite the catch with the ladies.
But the important thing
is that Maya's doing great...
...happy to be exactly who she is:
A Dolittle.
As for me. I'm still
the old dog I've always been.
Only now I've got a country gal...
...who I like to visit
when the city babes get me down.
City babes? You and me are going
to have talk. Lucky Dolittle.
Women... Can't live with them.
can't live without them!
THE END
Subtitles by: Reklame11